Sentence Segmentation task is a challenging task, especially when it comes to non-editorial texts. This dataset is intended to benchmark the performance of sentence-segmentation methods for the Turkish language.

## Dataset Curation

This dataset consists of 300 scientific abstracts from ([Özturk et al., 2014](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6830499/)), 300 curated news articles from [trnews-64](github.com/tdd-ai/trnews-64), and a set of 10K tweets. 

For the scientific abstracts, the sampling rationale is to maximize the number of abbreviations that reduce the accuracy of the rule-based approaches. As for the news set, the length of documents and the number of proper names is maximized. In the Twitter subset, the number of multi/single sentence tweets is balanced, and the tweets were preprocessed by replacing all URLs with `http://some.url`, and all user mentions with `@user`. The output of the test splits is kept private in order to preserve the benchmark quality.

Applying sentence segmentation to user-generated content such as social media posts or comments can be quite challenging. To simulate such difficult cases and expose the weaknesses of rule-based methods, another version of trseg-41 is created. Where the boundaries of sentences are artificially corrupted. This is done by randomly converting them to lowercase or uppercase with 50% probability, or by removing all punctuation marks with 50% probability.

## Dataset format

We share the dataset using `.jsonl` format (one json object per line) with UTF-8 encoding. 

```
{
    "text": "Hürriyet gazetesi köşe yazarı Yılmaz Özdil , sanatçı Sezen Aksu'nun kendisi hakkında suç duyurusunda bulunduğunu yazdı. Özdil, suç duyurusunun reddedildiğini ve Sezen Aksu'nun şikayet dilekçesinde \"tarihi bir yalanlama\"da bulunduğunu yazdı. Özdil köşesinde....",
    "sentences": ["Hürriyet gazetesi köşe yazarı Yılmaz Özdil , sanatçı Sezen Aksu'nun kendisi hakkında suç duyurusunda bulunduğunu yazdı.", "Özdil, suç duyurusunun reddedildiğini ve Sezen Aksu'nun şikayet dilekçesinde \"tarihi bir yalanlama\"da bulunduğunu yazdı.", ", "Özdil köşesinde \"Özgürlük\.... ]
}
```

## Dataset Statistics

|           | #Articles | #Sentences | #Words |
|:-----------|:------------:|:------------:|:---------:|
| News      | 300        | 6K          | 102K    |
| Tweets    | 10K        | 28K         | 242K    |
| Abstracts | 300        | 6K          | 112K    |
| Total     | 10.6K      | 40K         | 456K    |


## Contact

Uploaded and documented by Ali Safaya: `alisafaya gmail com`